ML Program Management guidance (#810)
microsoft/code-with-engineering-playbook: docs/machine-learning/ml-tpm-guidance.md

> # The role of a TPM in AI projects?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The role of a TPM in AI/ML projects
```

Author: updated

In this document, we explore some of the Program Management considerations for Machine Learning (ML) projects and suggest recommendations for Technical Program Managers (TPM) to effectively work with Data engineering teams.

> ## Is it an AI problem?

Author: revised the title

In Artificial Intelligence (AI) projects, the ML component is generally a part of an overall business problem and **NOT** the problem itself. Few considerations for identifying the right fit for your project:

- Determine the value for Machine Learning within the larger scope of a project. Think about the overall business problem first and then evaluate if ML can help address a part of the problem space.

- Engage experts in human experience and employ techniques such as [Design Thinking](https://www.ideou.com/blogs/inspiration/what-is-design-thinking) to **understand the customer needs** and human behavior first. For example, if your customer wants to talk about [Topic Modeling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Topic_model) instead of [Personas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_(user_experience)), you are having the wrong conversation.

> - Focus on **System Design** principles to identify the architectural components, entities, interfaces, constraints. Ask the right questions early and explore design alternatives with the engineering team.

Reviewer: We have documented some questions in the envisioning session here: https://github.com/microsoft/code-with-engineering-playbook/blob/ml-tpm-guidance/docs/machine-learning/ml-problem-formulation-envisioning.md - you could all a link to that here if you think it would fit.

Author: Thanks, added

- Think hard about the **costs of ML** and whether you can solve a repetitive problem at scale. Many a times, you can solve customer problems with data analytics, dashboards, or rule-based algorithms.

### Taming the ambiguity beast

ML projects can be plagued with a phenomenon we can call as the "**Death by Unknowns**". Unlike software engineering projects, ML focused projects can result in quick success early (aka sudden decrease in error rate), but this may flatten eventually. Few things to consider:

- **Set clear expectations**: Identify the performance metrics and discuss on a "good enough" prediction rate that will bring value to the business. An 80% "good enough" rate may save business costs and increase productivity but if going from 80 to 95% would require unimaginable amount of cost and effort. Is it worth it? Can it be a progressive road map?
  

> - Create a smaller team and **undertake a feasibility analysis** through techniques like [EDA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploratory_data_analysis) (Exploratory Data Analysis). A [feasibility study](https://microsoft.github.io/code-with-engineering-playbook/machine-learning/ml-feasibility-study/) is much cheaper to evaluate data quality, customer constraints and model feasibility. It allows a TPM to better understand customer use cases and current environment and can act as a fail-fast mechanism. Note that feasibility should be shorter (in weeks) else it misses the point of saving costs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create a smaller team and **undertake a feasibility analysis** through techniques like [EDA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploratory_data_analysis) (Exploratory Data Analysis). A [feasibility study](ml-feasibility-study.md) is much cheaper to evaluate data quality, customer constraints and model feasibility. It allows a TPM to better understand customer use cases and current environment and can act as a fail-fast mechanism. Note that feasibility should be shorter (in weeks) else it misses the point of saving costs.
```
The playbook's website will generate the link based on relative reference.

Author: fixed to relative reference

- During feasibility, have your team **generate a report on data quality** that includes missing values, duplicates, unlabeled data, expired or not valid data, incomplete data (e.g., only having male representation in a people dataset).

- **Understand data source reliability** (e.g., are the images from a production or industrial camera or taken from an iPhone)

- **Understand data acquisition constraints** (legal, contractual, Privacy, regulation, ethics) before leveraging the data sets.

- Identify if we have enough data for sampling the required business use case and how will the data be improved over time. The thumb rule here is that **data should be enough for generalization** to avoid overfitting.

### Plan for Unique Roles in AI projects

An ML Project has multiple stages, and each stage may require additional roles. For example, Design Research & Designers for Human Experience, Data Engineer for Data Collection, Feature Engineering, a Data Labeler for labeling structured data, engineers for MLOps and model deployment and the list can go on. As a TPM, factor in having these resources available at the right time to avoid any schedule risks.

> ### Feature Planning and Tuning

Reviewer 2: The term Feature Planning is a bit ambiguous. Consider changing to Feature Engineering and Hyperparameter Tuning (or something else)

Author: good point, updated
